feat(next): make defineConfig generic (#12243)
withastro/astro: .changeset/forty-trains-notice.md

---
'astro': minor
---

> Improves `defineConfig` type safety. TypeScript will now error if a group of related options do not have coherent types. For example, it will now error if `i18n.defaultLocale` is not one of the locales specified in `i18n.locales`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Improves `defineConfig` type safety. TypeScript will now error if a group of related configuration options do not have consistent types. For example, you will now see an error if your language set for `i18n.defaultLocale` is not one of the supported locales specified in `i18n.locales`.
```

---
'astro': minor
---

> Makes `defineConfig` generic

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure we should use this phrase. There isn't any generic that **the user should provide**. 

I would rephrase the changeset in a way that highlights the auto completion and the type safety.

> Makes `defineConfig` generic
> 
> TypeScript will now provide feedback at the type level when using `defineConfig`. For example, it will make sure `i18n.defaultLocale` is one of the locales declared in `i18n.locales`

Author: ```suggestion
Improves `defineConfig` type safety. TypeScript will now error if a group of related options do not have coherent types. For example, it will now error if `i18n.defaultLocale` is not one of the locales specified in `i18n.locales`
```
